What is an object in Java?

What is the difference between С++ and Java?

What is bytecode in Java?

What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding in Java?

What is the difference between abstract class and interface?

Why is Java platform independent?

What is the most important feature of Java?

What do you mean by platform independence?

What is JVM?

Are JVMs platform independent?

What is the difference between a JDK and a JVM?

What is a pointer and does Java support pointers?

What is the base class of all classes?

Does Java support multiple inheritance?

How are Runtime exceptions different from Checked exceptions?

What are the most important features introduced in Java 5, 7 and 8 respectively?

Is Java a pure object oriented language?

Is Java a statically or dynamically typed language?

Do arguments in Java get passed by reference or by value?

What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface and when would you use one over the other?

What is bytecode in Java?

What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding in Java?

What is the difference between abstract class and interface?

What is the difference between this() and super() in Java?

What is Unicode?

What is thread in Java?

What is the difference between process and thread?

What is Multitasking?

What is the difference between process-based and thread-based multitasking?

What is Multithreading, and what are its application areas?

What is the advantage of Multithreading?

List Java APIs that support threads.

In how many ways we can create threads in Java?

Explain creating threads by implementing Runnable class.

Explain creating threads by extending Thread class.

What is the best approach for creating thread?

Explain the importance of thread scheduler in Java.

Explain the life cycle of thread.

Can we restart a dead thread in Java?

Can one thread block the other thread?

Can we restart a thread already started in Java?

What is a lock or purpose of locks in Java?

In how many ways we can do synchronization in Java?

What are synchronized methods?

When do we use synchronized methods in Java?

What are synchronized blocks in Java?

When do we use synchronized blocks and what are the advantages of using synchronized blocks?

What is class level lock?

Can we synchronize static methods in Java?

Can we use synchronized block for primitives?

Explain object oriented programming and its features.

What is Abstraction?

What is Encapsulation?

What is the difference between abstraction and encapsulation?

List out benefits of object oriented programming language.

What are the differences between traditional programming language and object oriented programming language?

What is Inheritance?

What is Polymorphism?

How does Java implement polymorphism?

Explain the different forms of Polymorphism.

What is runtime polymorphism or dynamic method dispatch?

What is Dynamic Binding?

What is method overloading?

What is method overriding?

What are the differences between method overloading and method overriding?

Is it possible to override the main method?

How to invoke a superclass version of an Overridden method?

How do you prevent a method from being overridden?

What is an Interface?

Can we create an object for an interface?

Do interfaces have member variables?

What modifiers are allowed for methods in an Interface?

What is a marker interface?

What is an abstract class?

Can we instantiate an abstract class?

What is an Exception in Java?

What is the purpose of Exception Handling?

What is the meaning of Exception Handling?

Explain Default Exception Handling Mechanism in Java.

What is the purpose of ‘try’?

What is the purpose of catch block?

What are various methods to print Exception information? and differentiate them.

Is it possible to take try-catch inside try block?

Is it possible to take try-catch inside catch block?

Is it possible to take try without catch?

What is the purpose of finally block?

Will finally block be executed always?

In which situation finally block will not be executed?

What is the difference between final, finally and finalize()?

Is it possible to write any statement between try-catch and finally?

Is it possible to take two finally blocks for the same try?

What is the purpose of throw?

Is it possible to throw an Error?

Is it possible to throw any Java object?

What is the difference between throw and throws?

What is the difference between throw and thrown?

Is it possible to use throws keyword for any Java class?

What is the difference between Error and Exception?

What is the difference between checked exception and unchecked exception?

What is difference between partially checked and fully checked Exception?

What are the limitations of object arrays?

What are the differences between arrays and collections?

What are the differences between arrays and ArrayList?

What are the differences between arrays and Vector?

What is Collection API?

What is Collection framework?

What is the difference between Collections and Collection?

Explain about Collection interface.

Explain about List interface.

Explain about Set interface.

Explain about SortedSet interface.

Explain about Vector class.

What is the difference between ArrayList and Vector?

How can we get a synchronized version of ArrayList?

What is the difference between size and capacity of a Collection Object?

What is the difference between ArrayList and Linked List?

What are legacy classes and interfaces present in Collections framework?

What is the difference Enumeration and Iterator?

What are limitations of Enumeration?

What is the difference between enum and Enumeration?

What is the difference between Iterator and ListIterator?

What is Comparable interface?

What is Comparator interface?

What are the differences between Comparable and Comparator?

What is the difference between HashSet and TreeSet?